Abstract 1 :

A huge amount of textual information is available on Web, Facebook, blogs and 
Wikipedia, everyday rising new techniques, algorithms and tools extract the useful 
information. Therefore, Named Entity Recognition (NER) is very important technique to 
recognize the noun entities like such as names, date or time, location, medicine names etc. 
Many researchers have proposed many techniques in different languages and domains for 
extract information from text that techniques are help to developed new NER applications. 
Here, we discuss NER techniques: rule-based, learning-based and hybrid approaches and 
their application and systems. We also present advantages and disadvantages of different 
libraries and their tools using Java, Python, and Cython programming languages which are 
SpaCy, Apache OpenNLP, StanfordNLP and tensorflow. Few libraries served a NER prebuilt models that we use for comparison. We compare these few libraries on the basedon 
training accuracy, model size, time prediction, training loss data and F-measure. The data 
set is same for all libraries during training and testing, Spacy library provided a higher 
performance accuracy and good results as compare the other models. 

Abstract 2 :

Agencies and various high-level firms must deal with a large number of new jobs seeking 
people with various resumes. However, managing large amounts of text data and selecting 
the best-fit candidate is more difficult and time-consuming. This paper provides an overview
of an ongoing Information Extraction System project that helps recruiters in identifying the 
best candidate by extracting relevant information from the resume. 
This project presents a system that uses Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques to
extract minute data from a resume, such as education, experience, skills, and experience. 
The recruiting process is made easier and more efficient by parsing the resume. The 
proposed system is made up of three modules: an administration management system, File
upload and parser system, and an information extraction system. The administrator will 
upload the applicant's resume into the system, and the relevant information will be 
extracted in a structured format. Using the parsed information from the Resume, HR can 
select the best candidate for the job based on the company's needs.

Abstract 3:

In company’s or organization’s recruiting process, for a single opening there are multiple applying candidates. 
First process in recruiting procedure is to go with resumes one by one for the selection of best candidate. But 
this is time consuming and hectic process for recruiters. The reason behind this is each applicant has its own 
unique resume with different sections and different formats. So, it is not possible for recruiters to go with 
resumes one by one. To minimize the efforts of recruiters and investment of timing in this process we have 
proposed a system where recruiters can easily analyze resumes in simple file formats with the ranking. This 
project is based on Natural Language Processing (NLP). Two major components of this system are Job Seekers 
and Recruiters. Applicants will upload their resume in different formats mainly pdf or doc. Then parser will 
parse these resumes for field extraction, after analysis system will scale the resume and will give suggestions 
like required skills to be included in resume or courses to be done or fields to be included in resume to increase 
its rank. This ranking will be saved in databases where recruiter will get idea about most deserving candidates 
for a particular role.

Abstract 4 :

Screening resumes out of bulk is a challenging
task and recruiters or hiring manager wastes lot of their
valuable time by searching through each and every
resume. Often resumes are populated with irrelevant and
unnecessary information. Therefore, the process of
parsing thousands of resumes manually consumes lot of
time and energy there by it makes the hiring process
expensive. In traditional hiring, resume screening is a
manual process which consumes a lot of time and energy.
In this paper the process of screening resumes is
automated by using advanced Natural Language
Processing which is a field in Machine Learning .Our model
helps the recruiters in screening the resumes based on job
description with in no time. It makes the hiring process
easy and efficient by extracting the required entities
automatically by using Spacy NER model from the resumes
and then generates a graph displaying the score of each
and every resume. Based on the scores recruiter can
choose the required candidates without rummaging
through piles of resumes from unqualified candidates.

Abstract 5 :

Candidates apply in large numbers for jobs on web portals by uploading their resumes, due to the rapid 
growth of online-based recruitment systems. On the other hand, the resume has its formatting style, data 
blocks, and segments, as well as a variety of data formatting options such as text alignment, color, font 
type, and font size, making it an excellent example of unstructured data. As a result, filtering applicants for
the appropriate position in an organization becomes a difficult task for recruiters. We can use Natural 
Language Processing (NLP) techniques to extract the relevant information from the resume to save time 
and effort. Also, a Machine Learning (ML) model is trained to check whether a candidate’s skills, 
experiences, and other aspects are suitable for that particular role. In addition to that, our system will also 
recommend the other available job roles based on the candidate’s skillset.

Abstract 6 :

An abstract summarizes recruitment of 
candidates becomes more challenging when lots of 
resumes are uploaded for the same employment 
position. Companies many a times not able to decide on 
which resume is best-fit for that position. This paper 
presents an effective Company Recommender 
System to help recruiters to find the best 
candidate for given employment title using text 
mining and machine learning tools. When
candidatesuploadtheir resumes,thenaccording to the
companiesrequirements for theemploymentpositions, 
the candidates’ resumes get ranking. The ranking can 
be used by the company to get most preferable 
candidates.